========================
If-by-whiskey
(parody by Steve DeRose)

My friends, I had not intended to discuss this controversial subject at this
particular time. However, I want you to know that I do not shun controversy. On
the contrary, I will take a stand on any issue at any time, regardless of how
fraught with controversy it might be. You have asked me how I feel about markup.
All right, here is how I feel about markup:

If when you say "markup" you mean the devil's brew, the pointy scourge, the ugly
monster, that clutters clear text, dethrones creativity, destroys the beautiful
page layout, creates misery in parsing, yea, verbosely takes the WYSIWYG from
the screens of naive users; if you mean the evil tags that topple the
Office-using man and woman from the pinnacle of comfortable, gracious computing
into the bottomless pit of ontological despair, of schema-borne helplessness and
hopelessness, then certainly I am against it.

But, if when you say "markup" you mean the oil of portability, the philosophic
sign, the bottle for text poured out when good fellows get together, that
renders a song for their hearts and poetry for their lips, and brings the formed
flow of content meant for their eyes; if you mean text made clear; if you mean
the captivating display that puts the zing in the old gentle browsers, not
frosty blue-screen mourning; if you mean the thing which enables a man to
magnify his display with cleanliness, and to forget, if only for a little while,
software's great incompatibilities, and mistaken reflows; if you mean that data
lubricant, the sale of which pours into our treasuries untold millions of
dollars, which are used to provide better sharing despite our brittle, crippled
systems, for our blind, our deaf, our dumb readers, even when software has aged
and broken; to build search and rendering tools, then certainly I am for it.

    This is my stand. I will not retreat from it. I will not compromise.


========================
If-by-whiskey

    1952 speech by Noah S. "Soggy" Sweat, Jr., a young lawmaker from
Mississippi, on the subject of whether Mississippi should continue to prohibit
or finally legalize alcoholic beverages:

My friends, I had not intended to discuss this controversial subject at this
particular time. However, I want you to know that I do not shun controversy. On
the contrary, I will take a stand on any issue at any time, regardless of how
fraught with controversy it might be. You have asked me how I feel about
whiskey. All right, here is how I feel about whiskey:

If when you say whiskey you mean the devil's brew, the poison scourge, the
bloody monster, that defiles innocence, dethrones reason, destroys the home,
creates misery and poverty, yea, literally takes the bread from the mouths of
little children; if you mean the evil drink that topples the Christian man and
woman from the pinnacle of righteous, gracious living into the bottomless pit of
degradation, and despair, and shame and helplessness, and hopelessness, then
certainly I am against it.

But, if when you say whiskey you mean the oil of conversation, the philosophic
wine, the ale that is consumed when good fellows get together, that puts a song
in their hearts and laughter on their lips, and the warm glow of contentment in
their eyes; if you mean Christmas cheer; if you mean the stimulating drink that
puts the spring in the old gentleman's step on a frosty, crispy morning; if you
mean the drink which enables a man to magnify his joy, and his happiness, and to
forget, if only for a little while, life's great tragedies, and heartaches, and
sorrows; if you mean that drink, the sale of which pours into our treasuries
untold millions of dollars, which are used to provide tender care for our little
crippled children, our blind, our deaf, our dumb, our pitiful aged and infirm;
to build highways and hospitals and schools, then certainly I am for it.

    This is my stand. I will not retreat from it. I will not compromise.
